Scripts and Event Handling: elaborate on module scripts (#4974)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/client-side-scripts.mdx

</script>
```

> ### How Astro processes scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Script processing
```
Headings tend to be easier to scan when they are shorter, and "nouns" (things) people might care about. I think I'd have a preference for something like this?

</script>
```

> #### All processed scripts become module scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### module scripts by default

All scripts processed and bundled by Astro become module scripts by default.
```
This feels more like a "key fact" than a "section heading". Can we have a more generic heading that is like a "thing", and then lead with the key fact?

Alternatively, this might mean that this really *isn't* its own section at all? (Or, the section is "advantages of ..."? Consider whether this really is A. Section. I kind of think maybe it's not?

Also, since this sentence then becomes kind of short, we can through "bundled" in here again because we do use that word a lot, and the reinforcement of terms people use/are familiar with helps.

Author: What do you think about "Why `type=module`" as the heading? It is introduced as a bullet point a couple of lines above.

Reviewer: I don't *love* the "why" part but I like `type=module` better than anything so far.

Not everything needs to be a heading, and I'm trying to think of justification for this. Headings are useful for navigation, for separating content sections, and as visual breaks. Given that this is a list, we already have some natural visual break for the eyes.

I'm still not convinced this "section" is anything more than how Astro processes your scripts. This still seems content-wise to be in that category. 

And, it's not *awesome* practice for content/navigation to use questions as headers. When people are scanning, they want to know what this section is *about*. I think the most appropriate heading, if in fact we do need one (which I still am not convinced we do!) is "`type-module` benefits" -- that is what this section is *about*.

Author: It does not have to be a section. I'd be happy with just a sentence that introduces the list.

Author: Updated

This has several benefits:

> - Rendering is not blocked. The browser continues to process the rest of the html while the module script and its dependencies load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rendering is not blocked. The browser continues to process the rest of the HTML while the module script and its dependencies load.
```

> - The browser waits for html to be processed before executing module scripts. You do not need to listen for the "load" event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The browser waits for HTML to be processed before executing module scripts. You do not need to listen for the "load" event.
```

> - `async` and `defer` attributes become unnecessary. Module scripts are always deferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `async` and `defer` attributes are unnecessary. Module scripts are always deferred.
```
I think this fits the same verb tense as the others. We're describing what *does* happen.

> The `async` attribute is valuable for normal scripts as it prevents them from blocking rendering. However, module scripts already have this behavior and adding this attribute will make module scripts execute before the page has fully loaded. This is probably not what you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
The `async` attribute is valuable for normal scripts because it prevents them from blocking rendering. However, module scripts already have this behavior. Adding `async` to a module script will cause it to execute before the page has fully loaded. This is probably not what you want.
:::
```
Now, here's a case where I think this makes a great "note"! (Or "tip" even?)

Author: I agree, and I think note is still better - users do this hoping to delay things but they would be surprised to know it has the opposite effect.

#### Opting out of processing

> To prevent Astro from processing a script, you can use the `is:inline` directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent Astro from processing a script, add the `is:inline` directive.
```
(This is an excellent heading!)

</script>
```

#### Why `type="module"`?

This attribute makes the browser treat the script as a JavaScript module. This has several performance benefits:
- Rendering is not blocked. The browser continues to process the rest of the HTML while the module script and its dependencies load.
- The browser waits for HTML to be processed before executing module scripts. You do not need to listen for the "load" event.
- `async` and `defer` attributes are unnecessary. Module scripts are always deferred.

:::note
The `async` attribute is valuable for normal scripts because it prevents them from blocking rendering. However, module scripts already have this behavior. Adding `async` to a module script will cause it to execute before the page has fully loaded. This is probably not what you want.
:::

> #### Opting out of processing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Opting out of processing
```
Petition to bump this up, as something more important so it gets highlighted in the sidebar TOC!

Author: Granted!

```

:::note
Astro will not process your script tags in some situations. In particular, adding `type="module"` or any attribute other than `src` to a `<script>` tag will cause Astro to treat the tag as if it had an `is:inline` directive. The same will be true when the script is written in a JSX expression.
:::

📚 See our [directives reference](/en/reference/directives-reference/#script--style-directives) page for more information about the directives available on `<script>` tags.

> ### Include javascript files on your page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Running scripts from JavaScript files
```
I'm still not entirely sure about the wording, but something more like this seems to most precisely describe the action? Do you have something better for here?

Author: I was thinking of the case where users have a javascript file written somewhere (`src/lib/smooth-scroll.js`). I think they would lookup how to "include".

Reviewer: OK, happy to defer to you on this one!

Author: The examples below show discrete files as well, so I feel good about "include".

You may want to write your scripts as separate `.js`/`.ts` files or need to reference an external script on another server. You can do this by referencing these in a `<script>` tag’s `src` attribute.

#### Import local scripts

**When to use this:** when your script lives inside of `src/`.

> Astro will build, optimize, and add these scripts to the page for you, following its [script bundling rules](#script-bundling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro will build, optimize, and add these scripts to the page for you, following its [script bundling rules](#how-astro-processes-scripts).
```
This will fix the fact that the heading has been changed, but given that the wording has changed, please also check this sentence to see that it accurately describes what it's linking to. i.e. it claims to be taking you to "script bundling rules" but now takes you to a more generic section. Verify you think this still makes sense as a place to link and/or whether this sentence is still phrased correctly for the new context! 🙌 

(And, if you follow my suggestion to change that heading to something else, actually, that should be reflected here.)

Author: Yeah, I think this still applies.
